Maskless Uber passengers cough on, pepper spray and assault their driver
Lauren Fruen
2021-03-09T21:58:53Z
----------------------------
An Uber driver has been coughed on, pepper sprayed and assaulted by passengers who ripped off his mask after he says he asked them to wear a face covering.

Subhakar Khadka, 32, says he was racially abused by the three women after picking them up in the Bayview area of San Francisco on Sunday.

Shocking footage filmed on Khadka's car camera shows as one of the women coughs in his direction before leaning forward to grab his phone and then rip off his mask.

Khadka says another of the women then pepper sprayed inside his car.

San Francisco police confirmed they are investigating the incident and are asking for help in identifying the riders.

Uber says it has suspended the account of the woman who ordered the car.

Subhakar Khadka, 32, says he was racially abused and attacked after picking the three women up in the Bayview area of San Francisco on Sunday

Shocking footage filmed on Khadka's car camera shows as one of the women coughs before leaning forward to grab his phone and then rip off his mask

Khadka says another of the women then pepper sprayed inside his car

In the clip three women are seen sitting in the back seat of Khadka's car.

One of the passengers then coughs in the direction of the driver. They can be heard telling him: 'F*** the masks.'

As the women continue to shout at Khadka one then leans forward to grab his cellphone before ripping off his face mask.

Khadka told CBS: 'I never said anything bad to them, I never cursed, I was not raised that way. I don't hit people, I am not raised that way, so they were not getting out of my car.'

He said the altercation began when asked one of the women to put on her face mask. When she refused he said he pulled into a gas station so she could buy one.

But he says the insults and racial slurs then began before one of the women even pepper sprayed him as they left the car.

San Francisco police confirmed they are investigating the incident

Uber says it has suspended the account of the woman who ordered the car. Khadka - who is from Nepal - said he believes the incident was racially motivated

Khadka moved to the US from Nepal eight years ago to support his family, pictured

Khadka - who moved to the US from Nepal eight years ago to support his family - added: 'You guys are animals to treat other human beings like this.

'She pepper sprayed inside my car, from the passenger window that was open little bit, that was the only window open in my car.

'If I was another complexion, I would have not gotten that treatment from them. The moment I opened my mouth to speak, they realized I'm among one of them, so it's easy for them to intimidate me.'

He told the women: 'Since you were born and raised here in the United States, don't think the other person is less human.'

Uber said in a statement: 'The behavior seen in the video is appalling. The rider no longer has access to Uber.'

They have given Khadka $120 in cleaning funds.
