Uber Driver Asks Passengers To Wear Masks, Gets Assaulted
Aishwarya Dharni
2021-03-10T12:45:20Z
----------------------------
It is no surprise by now that some people have no regard for their own as well as another person's well-being when it comes to following COVID-19 safety protocol.

A shocking and honestly, blood-boiling video has been shared on social media which shows three extremely ill-behaved women in an Uber. According to the video, the women coughed and used pepper spray on their Uber driver in San Francisco after he refused to drive them and asked one of them to wear a mask.

The video has gone viral on social media which the show women mockingly coughing at the driver, Subhakar Khadka.

Also read: Bad News For Ola, Uber Drivers As Govt To Allow 20% Commission To Taxi Apps

One of them ripped the mask off his face and another woman even grabbed his phone.

Khadka said he picked up the passengers from the Bayview area of San Francisco. He said they racially abused and assaulted him for having refused service.

The video shows one of the women coughing in the direction of the driver before leaning forward to forcefully grab his phone. The very next moment, she rips off Khadka's face covering and continues to abuse him.

According to a report by KPIX 5, the attack started after Khadka noticed that one of the women was not wearing a mask. He politely asked her to wear one before the drive.

The report further added that Khadka even drove them to a nearby gas station to purchase masks. In an interview with CBS, the driver said that one of the women even used pepper spray on him before leaving the car.

"I never said anything bad to them, I never cursed, I was not raised that way. I don't hit people, I am not raised that way, so they were not getting out of my car," Khadka told CBS.

Facebook

“If I was another complexion, I would have not gotten that treatment from them. The moment I opened my mouth to speak, they realized I'm among one of them, so it's easy for them to intimidate me,” he added.

San Francisco police confirmed that they are investigating the incident and are asking help in identifying the passengers.

Also read: Uber Driver's Cab Carrying Messages On 'Humanity' & 'Religious Harmony' Is Winning Hearts

Facebook

Uber also released a statement and said it has suspended the account of the passenger who booked the car. The company has also given Khadka $120 in cleaning funds.

"The behavior seen in the video is appalling. The rider no longer has access to Uber," read the statement.



Also read: Uber Driver Who Took 'Anti-National' Rider To Police Station Receives 'Alert Citizen Award'
