Uber passenger refuses to wear mask, assaults driver. Disturbing viral video - India Today
None
2021-03-10T09:47:56Z
----------------------------
A video of an Uber driver from Nepal getting mistreated by three female passengers after he asked one of them to wear a mask has gone viral. The video was shared on Twitter by Dion Lim, a reporter on ABC7 News.

According to Lim, Subhakar Khadka, the Uber driver, had picked up three women from the Bayview area in San Francisco, California, US on March 8. Subhakar was subjected to slurs, taunting and physical assault after he asked one of the passengers to wear her mask.

Watch the harrowing video here. (Disclaimer: Explicit language has been used in the clip).

Reportedly, when the riders did not wear a mask, he politely informed them that he was cancelling the ride and that they needed to leave his vehicle. In the video shared by Lim, they can be seen hitting him, yanking the mask off his face and trying to steal his phone. They also pepper-sprayed him. After the traumatic incident, Subahkar then took a few days off.

UBER'S STATEMENT ON THE INCIDENT

Following the incident, an Uber spokesperson sent a statement to Lim that said, "The behaviour seen in the video is appalling. The rider no longer has access to Uber."

UPDATE: Subhakar shared these images with me detailing how Uber offered him $20 to clean his car after one of the riders, according to SFPD sprayed what is believed to be pepper spray in his car.



Uber then offered him $40. In the end he was given $120 for his ordeal. pic.twitter.com/iEHaf9aYTD March 9, 2021

Additionally, Uber only offered USD 20 in compensation for removing the spray on the car's interior fabric. Later, they increased the amount to USD 120.

According to a GoFundME page started to help Subhakar, this does not come close to the cost of getting a professional car detailing done to remove the strong chemicals of pepper spray. Moreover, Subhakar will also be losing his wages as he is not able to work.

MONEY RAISED FOR SUBHAKAR

At the moment, the page, started by an early investor of Uber Cyan Banister, has managed to raise over USD 27,319. According to them, the woman who assaulted Subhakar in the video said that if she'd had a gun, she would have shot him, and she's not apologetic. She even threatened to take legal actions against Uber.

Sharing an update on the thread about Subhakar's case, Lim revealed that when she asked him how he kept his cool during the ordeal, he said, "Because that is our culture. We respect and listen & that's all I could do." Also, he will send the money raised from GoFundMe to his wife and his eight-year-old kid in Nepal.

I called Subhakar to check in & ask how he kept his his cool during the ordeal.



"Because that is our culture. We respect & listen & that's all I could do"



He also thanks everyone for their support & says he'll send much of his @gofundme $ to his wife & 8-year old in Nepal. — Dion Lim (@DionLimTV) March 10, 2021

According to a local news outlet KPIX, Subhakar said that he has lived in the US for eight years, and he believed that he was attacked because of his race and accent. The incident comes at a time when attacks against elderly Asian residents and violence against Asian Americans has risen in the US.

ALSO READ | Airplane-shaped balloon with PIA written on it seized. Internet reacts
