Video: Maskless Uber riders assault and cough on driver
Amy Graff
2021-03-09T15:36:36Z
----------------------------
LATEST March 10, 1:15 p.m. A GoFundMe was launched to raise funds for Uber driver Subhakar Khadka, who was allegedly assaulted and harassed on Sunday by three riders who refused to wear masks in his car. It has raised $41,221 as of Wednesday at 1 p.m.

The GoFundMe was organized by Cyan Banister, an early investor in Uber, who was appalled by the amount of money Uber gave to the driver after the incident.

"Uber then failed to step up to take care of this Uber driver to help him with lost wages and cleaning from having pepper spray chemicals sprayed into the fabric of his car," a statement read on the fundraising page. "They instead began with only offering $20 in compensation for having pepper spray covering his interior fabric. They then upped it to $120 in compensation but this does not come close to the expenses needed to have a professional car detailing to try and remove the strong chemicals of pepper spray and also the lost wages from not being able to work."

March 10, 10:45 a.m. Lyft announced Wednesday that the company has permanently removed a rider from its platform who allegedly appeared in a video harassing an Uber driver in San Francisco on Sunday.

"Although this incident did not involve the Lyft platform, the unacceptable treatment of the driver in this video compelled us to permanently remove the rider from the Lyft community," Lyft wrote on Twitter. "Driving in a pandemic is not easy. Please wear a mask, respect one another, and be a good person."

Uber also banned the rider who requested the ride.

"When we learn of the identities of the other riders we can action their accounts too," Uber said in a statement.

March 9, 7:24 a.m. A San Francisco Uber driver shared a video of three women erupting into a rage Sunday after he refused them a ride for not wearing masks. The footage shows one of the women intentionally coughing on the driver, ripping off his mask and grabbing his cellphone from the dashboard.

The driver, 32-year-old Subhakar Khadka, told KPIX-TV, that he was attacked because he is a South Asian immigrant.

“I never said anything bad to them, I never cursed, I was not raised that way. I don’t hit people, I am not raised that way, so they were not getting out of my car,” said Khadka.

The San Francisco Police Department said in a statement that the driver picked up the passengers at San Bruno Avenue and Felton Street in the Portola neighborhood at 12:45 p.m. on March 7.

One of the passengers was not wearing a mask, and the driver stopped and ended the ride a few minutes later at San Bruno and Silver avenues, police said.

As the three women exited the car, one of them reached into an open window and sprayed what is believed to be pepper spray into the car and toward the driver, according to police.

The suspects fled and the department's Bayview Station is investigating.

Uber called the women's behavior appalling. "The rider no longer has access to Uber," an Uber spokesperson said in a statement.

Uber has a "no mask, no ride" policy and zero tolerance for physical violence, according to its community guidelines.

Drivers can cancel trips for "no mask" and if they don't feel safe without any penalty, according to the company's driver safety tips.
