Woman arrested, accused in attack on S.F. Uber driver caught on viral video - San Francisco Chronicle
Michael Williams
2021-03-12T01:48:32Z
----------------------------
One of three women caught in a now-viral video allegedly assaulting an Uber driver over a mask issue has been arrested, police said, and another plans to turn herself in.

Malaysia King, 24, was arrested Thursday in Las Vegas, San Francisco Police said. Arna Kimiai, also 24, has told authorities through her attorney that she plans to turn herself in “soon,” authorities said.

King, Kimiai, and a third woman were picked up by the Uber driver, 32-year-old Subhakar Khadka, on Sunday in San Francisco’s Bayview neighborhood, police said. The driver ended the ride minutes later because one of the women was not wearing a mask, authorities said.

In a video captured by a camera in Khadka’s car that has now gone viral, one of the women grabbed his cellphone. Khadka was able to get his phone back, and the passengers got out of his car before spraying him with pepper spray through his window, authorities said. The video also showed one of the women coughing on the driver and snatching his mask off of his face.

King faces charges of assault with a caustic chemical, assault and battery, conspiracy and violations of a health code.

Both Uber and Lyft have suspended the passenger seen coughing on Subhakar. A GoFundMe set up for the driver has raised more than $60,000.

In a statement on Thursday, San Francisco Police Lt. Tracy McCray said Kimiai should turn herself in “promptly.”

COVID Resources Coronavirus Map Tracking COVID-19 cases across the Bay Area and California.

“The behavior captured on video in this incident showed a callous disregard for the safety and well being of an essential service worker in the midst of a deadly pandemic,” McCray said. “We take this conduct very seriously in San Francisco, and we’re committed to ensuring that justice is done in this case.”

Michael Williams is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email: michael.williams@sfchronicle.com
