Woman arrested in SF assault on Uber driver that was caught on video, police say
Amy Graff
2021-03-12T03:22:24Z
----------------------------
One of the women seen in a video harassing and attacking an Uber driver has been arrested, the San Francisco Police Department announced Thursday. Another suspect has said she will turn herself in.

The Las Vegas Police Department apprehended 24-year-old Malaysia King earlier Thursday in connection with the incident that occurred on Sunday in the Portola neighborhood of San Francisco, according to a statement. King faces multiple charges, including assault with a caustic chemical, assault and battery, conspiracy and violation of health and safety code, police said.

Another suspect, 24-year-old Arna Kimiai, remains at large, but her legal counsel told San Francisco police that she will turn herself in to the nearest law enforcement agency.

“The behavior captured on video in this incident showed a callous disregard for the safety and wellbeing of an essential service worker in the midst of a deadly pandemic," Lt. Tracy McCray, who heads the San Francisco Police Department’s Robbery Detail, said in a statement. "We take this conduct very seriously in San Francisco, and we’re committed to ensuring that justice is done in this case.”

While an arrest has been made, the department said the incident continues to be investigated.

Video footage captured on a security camera and shared by KPIX-TV showed Kimiai and King allegedly attacking, harassing and coughing on Subhakar Khadka, a 32-year-old Uber driver. A third unidentified woman was also in the car as a passenger.

The women allegedly erupted into a rage when Khadka refused them a ride for not wearing a mask.

Khadka told KPIX-TV, that he was attacked because he is a South Asian immigrant.

“I never said anything bad to them; I never cursed. I was not raised that way. I don’t hit people; I am not raised that way, so they were not getting out of my car,” said Khadka.

The San Francisco Police Department said in a statement that the driver picked up the passengers at San Bruno Avenue and Felton Street in the Portola neighborhood at 12:45 p.m. on March 7.

One of the passengers was not wearing a mask, and the driver stopped and ended the ride a few minutes later at San Bruno and Silver avenues, police said.

"An altercation ensued, and one of the passengers reached over the driver from the rear seat area and stole the driver’s cell phone," police said. "The victim grabbed and eventually regained possession of his phone."

As the three women exited the car, one of them reached into an open window and sprayed what is believed to be pepper spray into the car and toward the driver, according to police.

Uber released a statement after SFPD announced King's arrest, thanking the Police Department for its quick action.

"Uber does not tolerate racism or hate in any form, against any community," Uber said. "When one community is being attacked, we are all being attacked. We are shocked and saddened by the recent increase in anti-Asian hate, particularly when it affects a driver or rider. In this case, we have banned all three riders and have been in contact with Mr. Khadka to offer our support.”

Uber banned the rider who requested the ride. "When we learn of the identities of the other riders we can action their accounts too," Uber said in a statement.

Uber has a "no mask, no ride" policy and zero tolerance for physical violence, according to its community guidelines.

Drivers can cancel trips without penalty for "no mask" or if they don't feel safe, according to the company's driver safety tips.

Lyft announced Wednesday that the company has also permanently removed the rider from its platform.

"Although this incident did not involve the Lyft platform, the unacceptable treatment of the driver in this video compelled us to permanently remove the rider from the Lyft community," Lyft wrote on Twitter. "Driving in a pandemic is not easy. Please wear a mask, respect one another, and be a good person."

A GoFundMe was launched for Khadka, raising more than $63,000 as of Thursday evening.

The fundraiser was organized by Cyan Banister, an early investor in Uber who was appalled by the amount of money Uber gave to the driver after the incident.

"Uber then failed to step up to take care of this Uber driver to help him with lost wages and cleaning from having pepper spray chemicals sprayed into the fabric of his car," a statement read on the fundraising page. "They instead began with only offering $20 in compensation for having pepper spray covering his interior fabric. They then upped it to $120 in compensation but this does not come close to the expenses needed to have a professional car detailing to try and remove the strong chemicals of pepper spray and also the lost wages from not being able to work."
