5 Of America's Big Cities (That Have Underreported Downsides)
Alex Hanton
2021-03-07T08:00:00Z
----------------------------
America is an incredibly vast and diverse country. Every town has its own problems, which are often completely incomprehensible to people even the next state over. But Cracked.com has been all across this great nation, at least before moving to our current offices in lovely Jonestown, Guyana, and we're here to give you the inside scoop on America's greatest cities and the ridiculous crap you have to put up with while living there.

5 New York City Lives In Fear Of SantaCon

As the greatest city in the world, New York is basically paradise. Not only does the city offer affordable accommodation (paying $4,000 a month to something called the Gaddafi Family Investment Trust to sleep in an old dog crate in an alley), but excellent career opportunities to boot (hanging around a coke dealer's house hoping a Wall Street guy hits you with his car). There's also world-class nightlife (one thousand suspiciously identical micropubs called Brass + Hops) and convenient public transport (the city's last functioning subway train is now horse-powered and moves slowly enough for you to notice the distant fires and strange pale figures lurking in every side tunnel). Yes, life in the Big Apple would be just about perfect, if only the entire city wasn't suffering under a terrible curse: SantaCon!

Kpiskorski/Shutterstock This is what Paul Revere was trying to warn us about.

Continue Reading Below Advertisement

The first New York SantaCon was held in 1998, when hundreds of Santas brought joy to the city by caroling through the streets. Unfortunately, the mayor must have angered a leprechaun, or possibly a team of leprechaun hunters angered Mike Bloomberg, because the event quickly turned evil, beginning a reign of Santa-based terror that continues to this day. By 2011, the event had turned into a massive pub crawl, with tens of thousands of drunk guys in Santa suits besieging the East Village. It got to the point that bars began hanging up "No Santa" signs, pledging to ban "anyone dressed as Santa Claus, Mrs. Claus, sexy Claus, elves, sexy elves, reindeer, sexy reindeer, snowmen, sexy snowmen, candy canes, sexy candy canes, Krampus, sexy Krampus, or any other holiday-themed costume or sexy variant of that costume."

Continue Reading Below Advertisement

The debauchery only got worse over the years. One bar owner turned against the event after being threatened with a big candy cane and informed "Santa doesn't pay." Bouncers struggled heroically to persuade a female Santa she couldn't bring her baby into the strip club. There were reports of Santas puking on terrified tourists and brawling with elves in the street. Frantic residents erected signs begging Santas to "take your bodily fluids...elsewhere." As one anti-Santa activist put it "If you're a five-year-old kid, the last thing you want to see is one Santa Claus beating up another Santa Claus or Santa lying in his own vomit holding a bottle of Jack Daniel's. If I saw that, I'd be like, 'Santa is dead.'"

Istolethetv/flickr Wait, is that not how Santa is supposed to act? Dammit Dad!

Continue Reading Below Advertisement

By 2014, the East Village was point-blank refusing to host the event, and plans to move it to Bushwick had to be cancelled after residents insisted that "Bushwick does not need a pool of talking sewage slithering through our streets." The event ultimately went ahead in Midtown, after organizers promised the Santas would be on their best behavior, which we assume means they stopped smashing all their empty beer bottles against local front doors. But you can't break a curse just like that, which is why the most recent 2019 SantaCon featured reports of Santas brawling in the street and peeing in the middle of a McDonald's while children screamed in terror.
