A Running List of New Restaurants That Opened in New York City
Luke Fortney
2021-03-04T19:19:32Z
----------------------------
Nearly a year into the coronavirus pandemic, restaurants across the city continue to move forward with openings, sometimes because their concepts could be adapted for delivery and outdoor dining service, but more often because their owners saw no other choice but to forge ahead. Since March 16, 2020, when the state first temporarily closed indoor dining, hundreds of new restaurants have opened their doors. This list of pandemic-born businesses includes an exciting Indian concept, a tortillería, and a classic, old-school Brooklyn restaurant that’s finally opening.

Here’s a round-up of the restaurants and bars that opened in March. This list will be updated weekly. If there’s an opening in your neighborhood that we’ve missed, let us know at tips@eater.com.

March 25

Battery Park City: Bluestone Lane, New York’s mini-chain of Australian coffee shops, opens its tenth location in the city today. The cafe takes over a former outpost of Le Pain Quotidien. 2 River Terrace, near North End Avenue

Bayside: An all-day restaurant specializing in pancakes opened in Queens this week. Belly Cake Pancake House makes pancakes in blueberry, banana, red velvet, and chocolate chip varieties, along with a handful of savory breakfast sandwiches. Open from 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily. 38-36 Bell Boulevard, near 39th Avenue

Bayside: Astoria restaurant Neptune Diner opened a third location in New York City last month. Located on a busy stretch of Bell Boulevard, Peter and George Katsihtis, who are brothers and owners of the 24-hour establishment, took over the former home of Jackson Hole, a diner that permanently closed its doors during the pandemic. 35-01 Bell Boulevard, at 35th Avenue

Brooklyn Heights: Used books, records, and challah french toast are now available at a Novel Kitchen, a three-in-one business that opened in February. The team includes Ali Ahmed, Ana Cabrera, and Akram Nassir, owners of Yemen Café; Dave Morse, owner of used bookstore Better Read Than Dead; and Cory Feierman, owner of Academy Records in Midtown. 151 Atlantic Avenue, between Henry and Clinton Streets

Chinatown: Roast ducks are now hanging in the window at Mott Street newcomer Hay Hay Roasted, which celebrated its grand opening on New Year’s Day. The restaurant sells roast whole chicken ($24 each), duck ($26 each), and roast pork by the pound ($11 per pound) for takeout and self-service indoor dining. Open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily. 81 Mott Street, near Canal Street

Clinton Hill: Backed by close to 500 donors on Kickstarter, husband-and-wife duo Katsutoshi and Chiemi Machida unveiled their highly anticipated restaurant Chef Katsu earlier this month. The project started as a burger stand based out of a West Elm store in Dumbo but plans to open a permanent brick-and-mortar store came together after a months-long Kickstarter campaign raised more than $51,000. 143 Greene Avenue, near Waverly Avenue

Crown Heights: While technically not a restaurant opening, Brooklyn cocktail veteran Ivy Mix opened a wine and spirits shop that showcases bottles made by women- and BIPOC-owned businesses. To open Fiasco she teamed up with Conor McKee and Piper Kristensen, two wine industry veterans who formerly worked at Tribeca wine store Frankly Wines and the one-Michelin-starred Oxalis, respectively. 1148 Union Street, at Rogers Avenue

Flushing: Canella Cafe-Bakery opened its doors in Queens this February. The cafe serves baguette sandwiches, banana and rice pudding, pies, and other baked goods. Whole cakes are available upon request by contacting the restaurant at 347-502-7098. Open at 7 a.m. daily. 25-85 169th Street, at 26th Avenue

Forest Hills: Another Japanese ramen import has opened in New York City. Tucked in an alleyway off of Austin Street, Keika Ramen is the first United States location for the ramen chain, which has locations across Tokyo. Bowls of miso and shoyu ramen are available for takeout, delivery, and outdoor and indoor dining. 6860 Austin Street, Suite 10A, near Yellowstone Boulevard

Gowanus: Chefs Ian Alvarez and Ryan Angulo, who cooked at French Louie together, opened Victor this week, a wood-fired Mediterranean restaurant. The business is operating out of the previous home of Freek’s Mill, a standout seasonal restaurant that closed its doors in August 2019. 285 Nevins Street, at Sackett Street

Hell’s Kitchen: Kausa opened for business at the end of February serving ceviche, pollo a la brasa, and Peruvian-style tamales. Open for takeout, delivery, and outdoor dining in a heated set-up along Ninth Avenue. 745 Ninth Avenue, between 50th and 51st streets

Long Island City: Kansas-style barbecue restaurant John Brown BBQ has reopened in the former space of Mothership Meat Company. Owner Josh Bowen closed the famed restaurant last August after eight years, blaming the decision on the “pandemic” and “idiot politicians” who halted the Amazon headquarters deal in 2019. 27-20 40th Avenue, between 27th and 28th streets

Lower East Side: It’s not everyday that a slice shop finds its way into the pages of the New York Times. Zazzy’s, a new pizza business, is now serving slices and squares on Orchard Street and at a second location in the West Village, located at 75 Greenwich Avenue. 173 Orchard Street, at Stanton Street

Midtown: From the team behind the beloved soup dumplings at Joe’s Shanghai comes Joe’s Home of Soup Dumplings, a restaurant based out of the Tower 49 skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan. In addition to its popular xiao long bao, the new business is making lion’s head meatballs, Peking duck, and Shanghainese dishes for takeout and delivery. Indoor dining starts on Friday, March 26. 7 East 48th Street, between Fifth and Madison Avenues

Midtown: Brothers Eli and Max Sussman closed the Williamsburg location of their Middle Eastern restaurant Samesa earlier in the pandemic. This week the duo is back with a new location in the lower-level of the Rockefeller Center, where dishes like chicken shawarma and chickpea seitan are available for takeout and delivery. Open Monday to Friday. Rockefeller Center, 45 Rockefeller Plaza, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues

Ozone Park: National seafood boil chain Crab du Jour has opened a new location on Atlantic Avenue, bringing its total number of open restaurants in New York City to at least 16, according to its website. There are plans for a bigger expansion in the tri-state area, according to a company spokesperson. 91-02 Atlantic Avenue, near 91st Street

Rockaway: Fried chicken sandwiches and beef brisket burgers are now available at the Meat Up Grill, a new restaurant located steps from Rockaway Beach. Closed Tuesdays. 165 Beach 116th Street, near Rockaway Beach Boulevard

Williamsburg: Following a sold-out, six-month run as a pop-up in Greenpoint, Edith’s has found a permanent home in nearby Williamsburg. The sandwich counter and Jewish deli is now operating out of the former home of the Meat Hook Sandwich Shop. 495 Lorimer Street, near Powers Street

March 18

Bushwick: From Gertie owner Nate Adler comes General Irving, a general store and all-day cafe that sells snacks, dips, and sandwiches on housemade focaccia. The cafe’s menu was created in partnership with star pastry chef Melissa Weller, who is currently taking up residency at Gertie. 1210 Halsey Street, near Wilson Avenue

East Williamsburg: New York City-based coffee roaster Regalia opened a standalone coffee shop and cafe earlier this month. At the newly opened Alita Cafe, Regalia owner Paolo Maliksi and partner Alejandro Ceballos are serving housemade cookies, chorizo cheddar biscuits, and eventually focaccia sandwiches. Open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily. 797 Grand Street, between Humboldt Street and Bushwick Avenue

Financial District: Italian restaurant import Sant Ambroeus has moved forward with its downtown expansion plans at the Brookfield Place shopping center, per a spokesperson for the company. The bi-level restaurant, helmed by chef Iacopo Falai, is now open for takeout, delivery, and indoor dining. Brookfield Place, 200 Vesey Street, at West Street

Fort Greene: The team behind Fort Greene cocktail bar Endswell opened a second spot in the neighborhood with chilaquiles, breakfast tacos, mole chicken wings, and $10 beer and shot specials. FancyFree replaces Mullanes Bar & Grill, a neighborhood sports bar that closed in July 2020 after 13 years. Open from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. daily, and starting at 12 p.m. on weekends. 71 Lafayette Avenue, at South Elliott Place

Long Island City: Black Star Bakery opened its fifth location this week, a sizable corner space with a kitchen that churns out shakshuka, malawach, and challah french toast. The restaurant is operating out of the former home of Dorian’s Diner, which has been in the neighborhood since the 1960s. 10-01 50th Avenue, at Vernon Boulevard

Lower East Side: All-day brunch is now available at Pig and Butter, a Ludlow Street newcomer that timed its opening with Saint Patrick’s Day. Its menu includes fried chicken and waffles; bacon, egg, and cheese sandwiches; and jerk chicken burgers. 134 Ludlow Street, near Rivington Street

Midtown: For the vaccinated among us, there are worse ways to spend a night in Midtown than perched on one of the velvet chairs at La Noxe. The subterranean cocktail lounge serves a short list of $17 cocktails, along with a dozen or so wines. Owner Jey Perie, formerly of Williamsburg dance club Kinfolk, opened the bar last October but only recently returned after closing for winter. Direct message La Noxe on Instagram or call at 917-477-3103 to reserve a table. Closed Sunday and Monday. 315 Seventh Avenue, near West 28th Street

Midtown East: Lemon chicken, charred eggplant, za’atar, and tzatziki are now available in pitas and bowls from Mama Ganoush, a counter-service Mediterranean restaurant on Lexington Avenue. Open for takeout and delivery. 638 Lexington Avenue, near East 54th Street

Upper East Side: A little more than a year after opening its first location on the Upper West Side, standout Vietnamese restaurant Two Wheels is bringing its pho, crepes, and banh mi sandwiches crosstown with a new location on Second Avenue. Open for takeout to start. 1382 2nd Avenue, at East 71st Street

West Village: Japanese hot pot destination Hakata Tonton is back after closing its doors last spring. The restaurant permanently closed in March due to the economic downturn from the pandemic, but now the hitmakers at Hand Hospitality are bringing it back as a takeout and delivery business. Former executive chef Koji Hagihara has been re-installed at the helm. 61 Grove Street, near Seventh Avenue South

Williamsburg: New York’s dude-dominated beer market received an exciting new addition this month with Talea Beer Co. The woman- and veteran-owned brand started as a local beer distributor in 2019, but now has a flagship brewery to call its own, where coffee, beer flights, and takeout cans are available. 87 Richardson Street, at Leonard Street

March 11

Elmhurst: Soy Bean Chen, which operates out of a flower shop in Flushing and is known for its silken tofu, has opened a second location within Elmhurst at a corner store. Similar to its original flower shop in Flushing, the off-shoot at Broadway Food Mart sells silken tofu in small ($2.50) and large ($4.00) sizes, with a handful of new toppings like boba in ginger syrup at the new location. 83-20 Broadway, at Dongan Avenue

Financial District: After a successful debut in Jersey City, homestyle Chinese fast-casual spot Chinah is now expanding into Manhattan. The restaurant sells a variety of quickserve bowl combinations, including a honey-soy glazed and braised pork belly bowl ($13.99), a spicy Kung Pao chicken bowl ($11.99), and Grandma’s Favorite ($13.99), a warm bowl of meatballs, tomato and egg, greens, and forbidden black rice. The downtown opening is bit of a homecoming for the team, as co-owner Hegel Hei was formerly a manager at restaurateur Amelie Kang’s now-closed FiDi spot Tomorrow. Chinah is takeout-only to start, with delivery options to follow. 100 Maiden Lane, at Pearl Street

Forest Hills: Queens has a new sandwich shop in the form of Stacked, a business with nearly 36,000 followers on Instagram despite opening its doors less than two weeks ago. The restaurant’s five-page menu includes reubens, muffalettas, jerk chicken Caesar sandwiches, and a dozen other heroes, none of which cost more than $14. The exception is the restaurant’s six-foot-long heroes, which are priced at $150 and $175 each and can feed 15 to 20 people, according to its website. 68-60 Austin Street, near Yellowstone Boulevard

Greenwich Village: Chef and restaurateur Julian Medina has rebranded the Thompson Street outpost of Toloache as Kuxé, a bi-level restaurant serving Pueblan and Oaxacan fare. The restaurant’s menu of tacos de birria and mole poblano nods to regional dishes that its staff grew up making and eating. Between two stories, Kuxé can seat 44 customers at 35 percent capacity, with seven cabanas outdoors. 205 Thompson Street, at Bleecker Street

Lower East Side: Alimentari Flaneur, a pop-up produce market that opened in the Market Line last year, now has a permanent home in the food hall. Owner Daniel Emilio Soares, whose family has run Balducci’s supermarkets in New York for generations, first debuted the market as a pop-up in Little Italy in 2019. 115 Delancey Street, at Essex Street

Lower East Side: A cheeky new burger and fries spot, called Smashed, has opened on Orchard Street. Available with beef or vegan Impossible patties, the tiny restaurant serves the “BEST SMASH BURGERS IN NYC LETS ARGUE!!” according to its website. Burgers can be stacked with one, two, or three patties (between $8 and $17 before french fries). Open Wednesday to Sunday. 177 Orchard Street, between East Houston and Stanton streets

Lower East Side: The bubble waffles so common on the streets of Hong Kong can be found at Smoove Ice Cream, a desserts shop that opened in the former Stax Ice Cream space on Grand Street. From a small counter on the border of Chinatown and the Lower East Side, the store is serving ice cream, bubble tea, and tong sui, hot and cold soups that can be made with taro, black sesame, and red bean. 279 Grand Street, between Forsyth and Eldridge streets

Lower East Side: Vegan oat milk soft serve is now on the menu at Whipped Urban Dessert Lab. Founded by Courtney Blagrove and Zan B.R, the company started as a stand at the North 3rd Street Market in Williamsburg in 2019. Open Friday through Sunday for now. 95 Orchard Street, between Delancey and Broome streets

Park Slope: A cafe serving Greek and Latin baked goods opened on 11th Street in January. From 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. each day, Casita serves pastelitos, guava and cheese pastries, empanadas, and baklava. 318 11th Street, near Fifth Avenue

Throggs Neck: Neighborhood pizzeria Cousins expands this week with a new Italian bakery based out of the same kitchen. From the Sweet Spot, owner Nat Giraldi sells cakes by the slice, including cheesecake, limoncello, tres leches, red velvet, carrot, tiramisu, and more. Open from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily and two hours later Thursday through Saturday. 3579 E Tremont Avenue, between Lafayette Avenue and Sullivan Place

Tribeca: For lump crab cakes, fried chicken, and other upscale takeout needs, consider Twiggy To Go , a new takeout and catering business on Church Street. Mitchell London, a former chef for New York City mayor Ed Koch, is behind the business, which is currently operating as a grab-and-go operation but plans to reopen as a full-service restaurant in early 2022. Open for takeout from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on weekdays and from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. 279 Church Street, near White Street

March 4

Astoria: Colombian bakery Parceros opened a second location in Astoria earlier this year, appropriately named Parceros Bakery II. The cafe makes fried bunuelos, maduros con queso, and almojabanas. Similar to the original, there’s also a rotating list of breakfast specials, including beef rib soup and chicharron. 3015 30th Avenue, between 30th and 31st Streets

Bushwick: Ecuadorian chef-owner Fabiola Maldonada has opened a second location of Paloma’s in the former space of Guadalupe Inn, which closed after nearly four years in September. Similar to her original restaurant, which opened on the border of Bushwick and Ridgewood in 2016, the focus is on Pueblan and Oaxacan fare, like jicama aguachile, octopus tostada, and squash blossom quesadillas. Open for takeout, delivery, and indoor dining. 1 Knickerbocker Avenue, at Johnson Avenue

Bushwick: Following front-of-house stints at now-shuttered top NYC restaurants like Spice Market and Cafe Gray, Iveelt Bayart has opened a second location of his popular Carroll Gardens restaurant. Za-Ya, where Bayart is also the chef, is a Japanese restaurant with a focus on ramen, sushi rolls, and small plates like karaage. 321 Starr Street, near Cypress Avenue

East Village: It’s another big week of openings for the East Village. Puerto Rican coffee roaster 787 Coffee has opened a third location in the East Village, bringing its total number of New York City locations to eight. The coffee shop moved into the former home of Champion Coffee, which did not reopen after indoor dining was first shutdown last March. 319 East 14th Street, between First and Second Avenues

East Village: Essex Market bagel maker Davidovich Bakery branches out with a third location this week on Avenue A. Still in its soft opening, the bakery replaces neighborhood coffee shop Native Bean, which ended its five-year run at the address — and 20-year run on Avenue A the East Village — last September. 36 Avenue A, at East Third Street

East Village: Hub Thai has moved into at its new home on Avenue A. The neighborhood Thai restaurant was previously located three blocks north, at 105 Avenue A. The building was formerly occupied by Villa Cemita, which closed in June after five years. Open for takeout, delivery, and indoor dining. 50 Avenue A, between Third and Fourth Streets

East Village: Two Momofuku Ssam Bar alums have teamed up on a new, month-long tasting menu pop-up. Nudibranch serves a six- to eight-course meal with dishes like shaoxing mushrooms, soba alla bottarga, and razor clams with grapefruit and chile. 130 First Avenue, at St. Marks Place

Greenwich Village: Taiwan’s popular milk and flavored tea brand Koi Thé — which goes by the brand Fiftylan in the U.S. — has debuted two locations in NYC, one in Greenwich Village, and the other by Union Square. 189 Bleecker Street, near MacDougal Street, and 32 Union Square East, at East 16th Street

Long Island City: There’s a new restaurant serving bubble tea, dumplings, and hot and cold hand-pulled noodles in Long Island City. Noodlecraft comes from the same owner of hand-pulled noodle maker Hana Noodle Station, which operates out of Dekalb Market in Downtown Brooklyn. 10-39 47th Road, between Vernon Boulevard and 11th Street

Lower East Side: Croquetas, maduros, and tostones have a new home at Mi Salsa Kitchen, a Cuban restaurant that opened its doors last month. The restaurant takes the place of the eight-year-old Mezetto, which never reopened after the indoor dining shutdown last March. Open for takeout, delivery, and indoor dining. 205 Allen Street, at East Houston Street

Lower East Side: After close to a six-year tenure on Orchard Street, storied Lower East Side hangout Max Fish has closed its doors. In its place, the Orchard Room has opened, a new bar with late-night dim sum, bottle-service, and monkey-themed wallpaper. The hospitality group behind the bar, 29Monroe, is slated to open a second, more upscale lounge in the East Village later this month. Open for indoor 120 Orchard Street, at Delancey Street

Lower East Side: Local seafood chain Juicy King Crab Express has a new location just south of Seward Park. There are roughly a dozen restaurants of the same name throughout Brooklyn and Queens, but this East Broadway location appears to be the company’s first Manhattan outpost. 213 East Broadway, near Clinton Street

Lower East Side: Crab Du Jour, a separate chain of seafood restaurants, is opening across Seward Park in the former space of La Flaca, a Mexican restaurant that closed in June after a decade on Grand Street. 384 Grand Street, at Suffolk Street

Soho: Franklin Becker — the chef best known for starting the fast casual chain Little Beet — is now operating four restaurant concepts from the same space in Tribeca. Universal Taco, Galinha, Shai, and Butterfunk Biscuit will serve Mexican, Portuguese, and Mediterranean, Southern-style food, respectively. 30 Vandam Street, between Sixth Avenue and Varick Streets

Williamsburg and Park Slope: The word panini evokes thoughts of buttered bread, melty cheese, and perfectly spaced grill marks, but co-owners Ming Lai and Nik Barricelli want New York to think of housemade focaccia, as well. From a new food truck called Cento Percento, the duo is making Tuscan-style paninis topped with ‘nduja, tomato jam, and balsamic glaze. Catch the truck this weekend at the Canvas in Williamsburg on Saturday and at Cousin John’s Bakery in Park Slope on Sunday. Popping up across New York City

Upper West Side: Beloved dumpling shop Mimi Cheng’s heads uptown this week with a new outpost on Amsterdam Avenue, its third location in New York City. 309 Amsterdam Avenue, between West 74th and 75th Streets
