See The NYC Restaurants COVID-19 Forced Out Of Business - New York City, NY Patch
Gus Saltonstall
2021-03-12T15:17:54Z
----------------------------
Restaurants & Bars See The NYC Restaurants COVID-19 Forced Out Of Business A new report details the number of restaurants that have closed in neighborhoods across NYC since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. Replies (3)

An image of the now-closed Cottage restaurant on the Upper West Side. (Gus Saltonstall/Patch)

NEW YORK, NY — Few businesses have struggled more in New York City during the coronavirus pandemic than the restaurant industry, and a new report shows which neighborhoods lost the most eateries over the past year.

The Infatuation, a New York-based restaurant recommendation website, recently released a report detailing which New York City neighborhoods have had the most permanent restaurant closings since the pandemic started last March. Patch has not independently confirmed that all the restaurants are closed.

The East Village took home the unfortunate distinction of the neighborhood with the most restaurant closings in the five boroughs. A staggering 55 eateries in the Lower Manhattan neighborhood have closed since last March, according to the report. Here are the five neighborhoods with the most permanent restaurant closings in New York City since the start of the pandemic.

East Village West Village Lower East Side Upper West Side Williamsburg The Infatuation's report includes the following areas and neighborhoods: Astoria, Bay Ridge, Bed-Stuy, Boerum Hill, Brooklyn Heights, the Bronx, Bushwick, Carroll Gardens, Corona, Chelsea, Chinatown, Clinton Hill, Cobble Hill, Crown Heights, Dyker Heights, East Village, FiDi, Flatiron, Forest Hills, Fort Greene, Gowanus, Greenpoint, Harlem, Hell's Kitchen, Hudson Yards, Koreatown, Long Island City, Lower East Side, Meatpacking District, Midtown, Murray Hill, NoHo, NoLita, NoMad, Park Slope, Pelham Bay, Prospect Heights, Red Hook, Ridgewood, Sheepshead Bay, SoHo, Staten Island, Tribeca, Upper East Side, Upper West Side, Washington Heights, West Village, and Williamsburg. On Wednesday, governors Andrew Cuomo and Phil Murphy announced in a joint news conference that restaurants in New York City and New Jersey can expand to 50 percent indoor capacity on March 19.

Andrew Rigie, who leads the New York Hospitality Alliance, said in a statement that the expansion spells relief from recent gloom and doom facing restaurants. "While city restaurants may not increase occupancy to 75% like restaurants are safely doing throughout the rest of the state, it is still welcome news to the battered restaurant industry," he said.
