State Lifts 11 p.m. Curfew for Various Businesses but Not Restaurants
Tanay Warerkar
2021-03-18T14:36:31Z
----------------------------
New York restaurant curfew remains at 11 p.m. for now

Beginning April 5, gyms and movie theaters in New York won’t have to abide by the state’s 11 p.m. curfew imposed on businesses. Restaurants and bars, however, will still have to stick to the curfew for now, Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced Wednesday.

This latest ruling also applies to bowling alleys, pool halls, and casinos. Cuomo said Wednesday that the state would reevaluate the restaurant curfew in mid-April. Meanwhile, catered events like weddings have a 12 a.m. curfew.

Restaurant industry groups have been calling on the governor to push back the curfew for quite some time now, and this latest decision was met with more disappointment as well. “We call on the state Legislature to end this illogical, harmful policy immediately,” Scott Wexler, of the Empire State Restaurant and Tavern Association, told the New York Daily News.

In other news

— In partnership with UberEats, Shake Shack is now letting its customers order directly from its app, according to a spokesperson for the burger chain. There’s a 99-cent delivery fee, and orders above $35 have no delivery charge. Through March 31 this year, Shake Shack is also offering a free order of fries with every delivery order above $15.

— Lower rents are allowing Brooklyn’s Blue Marble Ice Cream to open a new location on the Upper West Side, at the corner of Broadway and West 97th Street.

— Chef Edouard Massih’s Greenpoint deli Edy’s Grocer is hosting a Lebanese brunch pop-up this weekend with baked goods company the Hungry Gnome. Expect items like pistachio halva cinnamon buns and a feta za’atar scones. The pop-up runs this Saturday and Sunday starting at 9 a.m. until supplies run out.

—The Cut looks at how Haitian American Brooklyn restaurant Cafe Erzulie became a gathering space for the borough’s Black queer community.

— Williamsburg Oaxacan restaurant Sobre Masa is hosting a guest chef series every Thursday. Upcoming chefs include Ryan Bartlow from Ernesto’s, Douglas Kim from Jeju Noodle Bar, and José Moreno from Birria-Landia.

— The revamped Bushwick Vietnamese restaurant Falansai is getting ready to debut its dining room on March 24 for the first time since its opening last year.

— The owners of the Long Island City burger spot the Baroness, and the wings and hot dog restaurant the Huntress are opening a new establishment in a space once occupied by Corner Bistro at 47-18 Vernon Boulevard.

— Longtime beloved Upper West Side Chinese restaurant the Cottage, which closed last year, may be planning a comeback in the neighborhood.

— A vibe indeed:

guy in first class making carbone res before we take off, a vibe if u swing that way — dan q. dao (@danqdao) March 18, 2021
